<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect"></a>

# brel.characteristics.brel\_aspect

This module contains the Aspect class.
Aspects are the building blocks of the [Context](./contexts.md) of a fact.
They are split into two categories: core aspects and custom aspects.

Core aspects are the 5 base aspects: concept, period, entity and unit.

Custom aspects are all other aspects that are not core aspects.

====================

- author: Robin Schmidiger
- version: 0.2
- date: 08 January 2024

====================

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect"></a>

## Aspect Objects

```python
class Aspect()
```

Base class for all aspects.
An an aspect is a wrapper around a string-id.
This string-id is called the name of the aspect.
An aspect can also have human readable labels for its name.
The four core aspects are instances of this class and are accessible as class attributes.

These four core aspects are available as the following class attributes:

- `Aspect.CONCEPT`
- `Aspect.PERIOD`
- `Aspect.ENTITY`
- `Aspect.UNIT`

A lot of reports omit the language aspect, but it can be emulated by using a custom aspect.
All but the concept aspect are optional for a context.

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect.get_name"></a>

#### get\_name

```python
def get_name() -> str
```

Get the name of the aspect.

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect.is_core"></a>

#### is\_core

```python
def is_core() -> bool
```

Check if the aspect is a core aspect.

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect.get_labels"></a>

#### get\_labels

```python
def get_labels() -> list[BrelLabel]
```

Get the labels of the aspect.

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect.from_QName"></a>

#### from\_QName

```python
@classmethod
def from_QName(cls,
               qname: QName,
               labels: list[BrelLabel] | None = None) -> "Aspect"
```

Creates a new aspect from a QName.

The method `get_name()` of the newly created aspect will return the string generated by `qname.get()`.

**Arguments**:

- `qname`: the QName to create the aspect from
- `labels`: A list of labels for the aspect. If None, an empty list is used.

<a id="brel.characteristics.brel_aspect.Aspect.from_str"></a>

#### from\_str

```python
@classmethod
def from_str(cls,
             name: str,
             labels: list[BrelLabel] | None = None) -> "Aspect"
```

Creates a new aspect from a string.

To access the core aspects, use the class attributes
`Aspect.CONCEPT`, `Aspect.PERIOD`, `Aspect.ENTITY` and `Aspect.UNIT` instead.

**Arguments**:

- `name`: The name of the aspect
- `labels`: A list of labels for the aspect. If None, an empty list is used.

